# Vinyl Music
The official repo for Vinyl Music (previously called material music).  The idea was to make a pretty, cross platform music player.

For current functionality, see the "Features" section below.

I played around with using python as the backend, but since, have resolved to only use c++/qml, so the ridiculous dependencies of python have been removed.  Now you just need Qt5 and qml-material.

Dec 11:
I have a database engine working in the background at the moment, and it requires TagLib (for getting the metatags from the audio files, when inserting into the database).  You need that installed in such a way that /usr/local/lib/libtag.so exists, at that location.


### Dependencies
	c++:
		TagLib (http://taglib.github.io/)
	Qt:
		Qt5.5 (Tested using 5.5.1)
		qml-material (https://github.com/papyros/qml-material)

Vinyl Music is still very early in development, however, if you'd like to give it a try, just install the dependencies, and then run the following from within the vinyl-music directory to launch:

qml ./main.qml

Or you could build it by opening the project file in Qt Creator, or by running the following (from the vinyl-music subdirectory [containing the .pro file):

	qmake
	make
	make install


### Features
##### Keyboard Navigation:
	Spacebar = play/pause
	Left Arrow = previous track (if any)
	Right Arrow = next track
	up/down = volume up/down
	
##### Local Music
Just drop your music folders into ~/Music, and Vinyl Music will find them
	
##### Online Streams
Download online streams in m3u format, and save them to ~/Music/streams

##### Shuffle
This part is still a WIP, as vinyl won't correctly go to the previous shuffled track when clicking previous; instead, it goes to track 0 (the first track in the folder).

##### Database Integration
Currently the database gets built during the initial opening of the application, but no way to refresh the database from within the app yet, and the lists of audio within the app does not use the database at all yet.  Currently, the listings of albums/songs are being generated by a directory scan of ~/Music.


### Screenshots
Version 0.5
![Image of Vinyl music]
(https://github.com/nickgermaine/vinyl-music/blob/master/images/screen4.png)


Version 0.2: Prior to December 11 (couldn't decide where to put the audio controls)
![Image of Vinyl music]
(https://github.com/nickgermaine/vinyl-music/blob/master/images/screen3.png)

Version 0.1: Prior to volume, online streams, settings, and bottom controls:
![Image of Material Music 1]
(https://github.com/nickgermaine/vinyl-music/blob/master/images/screen2.png)

Version 0.00.1
![Image of Material Music]
(https://github.com/nickgermaine/vinyl-music/blob/master/images/screen1.png)
